Delegating-edits (#772)
graphprotocol/docs: website/pages/en/network/delegating.mdx

title: Delegating
---

Delegators are network participants who delegate (i.e., "stake") GRT to one or more Indexers.

- They help secure the network without running a Graph Node themselves.

- They earn a portion of an Indexer's query fees and rewards by delegating to them.

## How does this work?

> - The number of queries an Indexer can process depends on their own stake, **the delegated stake**, and the price the Indexer charges for each query. Therefore, the more stake allocated to an Indexer, the more potential queries an Indexer can process.

Reviewer: Sorry if I'm too picky about this, but not sure why we ever have lists with a single item. Shouldn't this be a paragraph?

Author: No problem! Bullet points make it easier for UI

Author: -fine changing it for this 👍

Reviewer: I'm curious to have @0xa3k5's thoughts on this.

## Delegator Guide

> Learn how to be an effective Delegator in the Graph Network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn how to be an effective Delegator in The Graph Network.
```

Delegators share the earnings of the protocol alongside all Indexers based on their delegated stake. Therefore, they must use their best judgment to choose Indexers based on multiple factors.

> > Please note this guide does not cover steps such as setting up Metamask properly, as that information is widely available online.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Please note this guide does not cover steps such as setting up MetaMask properly, as that information is widely available online.
```

Delegators cannot be slashed for bad behavior, but there is a tax on Delegators to disincentivize poor decision-making that could harm the integrity of the network.

As a Delegator, it's important to understand the following:

> - You will be charged 0.5% every time you delegate. This means that if you delegate 1000 GRT, you will automatically burn 5 GRT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You will be charged 0.5% every time you delegate. This means that if you delegate 1,000 GRT, you will automatically burn 5 GRT.
```

- In order to be safe, you should calculate your potential return when delegating to an Indexer. For example, you might calculate how many days it will take before you have earned back the 0.5% tax on your delegation.

### The delegation unbonding period

Whenever a Delegator wants to undelegate, their tokens are subject to a 28-day unbonding period. This means they cannot transfer their tokens or earn any rewards for 28 days.

> **Why is this important?**

Reviewer: Heading?

### Choosing a trustworthy Indexer with a fair reward payout for Delegators

In order to understand how to choose a trustworthy Indexer, you need to understand the Delegation Parameters.

#### Delegation Parameters

- **Indexing Reward Cut** - The portion of the rewards the Indexer will keep for themselves.
  - If an Indexer's reward cut is set to 100%, as a Delegator, you will get 0 indexing rewards.

>   - If it is set to 80% , as a Delegator, you will receive 20%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If it is set to 80%, as a Delegator, you will receive 20%.
```

<div sx={{ mx: 'auto', maxWidth: '700px' }}>
  ![Indexing Reward Cut](/img/Indexing-Reward-Cut.png) *The top Indexer is giving Delegators 90% of the rewards. The
  middle one is giving Delegators 20%. The bottom one is giving Delegators ~83%.*
</div>

- **Query Fee Cut** - This is just like the Indexing Reward Cut, but it applies to returns on the query fees that the Indexer collects.

As you can see, in order to choose the right Indexer, you must consider multiple things.

> - It is highly recommend that you explore [The Graph Discord](https://discord.gg/graphprotocol) to determine which Indexers have the best social and technical reputations and which reward Delegators consistently.

Reviewer: Just a suggestion, not sure if it's objectively better but reads better to me:
```suggestion
- It is highly recommend that you explore [The Graph Discord](https://discord.gg/graphprotocol) to determine which Indexers have the best social and technical reputations and which ones reward Delegators consistently.
```

### Considering the query fee cut and indexing fee cut

You should choose an Indexer that is transparent and honest about setting their Query Fee and Indexing Fee Cuts. You should also look at the Parameters Cooldown time to see how much of a time buffer you have. After that is done, it is simple to calculate the amount of rewards you are getting.

The formula is:

![Delegation Image 3](/img/Delegation-Reward-Formula.png)

### Considering the Indexer's delegation pool

Delegators should consider the proportion of the Delegation Pool they own.

All delegation rewards are shared evenly, with a pool rebalancing based on the amount the Delegator deposited into the pool.

This gives the Delegator a share of the pool:

![Share formula](/img/Share-Forumla.png)

> The formula above shows that it is possible for an Indexer offering only 20% to Delegators to provide a better reward than an Indexer giving 90%. Simply do the math to determine the best reward.

### Considering the delegation capacity

Finally, consider the delegation capacity. Currently, the Delegation Ratio is set to 16.

#### Why does this matter?

> This means that if an Indexer has staked 1,000,000 GRT, their Delegation Capacity is 16,000,000 GRT of Delegated tokens that they can use in the protocol. Any delegated tokens over this amount will dilute all the Delegator rewards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that if an Indexer has staked 1,000,000 GRT, their Delegation Capacity is 16,000,000 GRT of delegated tokens that they can use in the protocol. Any delegated tokens over this amount will dilute all the Delegator rewards.
```

### Choosing a trustworthy Indexer with a fair reward payout for Delegators

In order to understand how to choose a trustworthy Indexer, you need to understand the Delegation Parameters.

#### Delegation Parameters

- **Indexing Reward Cut** - The portion of the rewards the Indexer will keep for themselves.

>   - If an Indexer's reward cut is set to 100%, as a Delegator, you will get 0 indexing rewards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If an Indexer's reward cut is set to 100%, as a Delegator, you will not get any indexing rewards.
```

Author: -I like the numbers here--make it more direct

  - If it is set to 80% , as a Delegator, you will receive 20%.

<div sx={{ mx: 'auto', maxWidth: '700px' }}>
  ![Indexing Reward Cut](/img/Indexing-Reward-Cut.png) *The top Indexer is giving Delegators 90% of the rewards. The
  middle one is giving Delegators 20%. The bottom one is giving Delegators ~83%.*
</div>

- **Query Fee Cut** - This is just like the Indexing Reward Cut, but it applies to returns on the query fees that the Indexer collects.

As you can see, in order to choose the right Indexer, you must consider multiple things.

- It is highly recommend that you explore [The Graph Discord](https://discord.gg/graphprotocol) to determine which Indexers have the best social and technical reputations and which reward Delegators consistently.
- Many Indexers are very active in Discord and will be happy to answer your questions.

> - Many of them have been Indexing for month, and they are doing their best to help Delegators earn a good return, as it improves the health and success of the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Many of them have been Indexing for months, and they are doing their best to help Delegators earn a good return, as it improves the health and success of the network.
```

Author: great catch!

## Calculating Delegators Expected Return

A Delegator must consider the following factors to determine a return:

- Consider an Indexer's ability to use the Delegated tokens available to them.
  - If an Indexer is not allocating all the tokens available, they are not earning the maximum profit they could be for themselves or their Delegators.
- Pay attention to the first few days of delegating.
  - An Indexer can choose to close an allocation and collect rewards anytime between 1 and 28 days. It is possible that an Indexer might have a lot of rewards they still need to collect, so their total rewards are low.

### Considering the query fee cut and indexing fee cut

You should choose an Indexer that is transparent and honest about setting their Query Fee and Indexing Fee Cuts. You should also look at the Parameters Cooldown time to see how much of a time buffer you have. After that is done, it is simple to calculate the amount of rewards you are getting.

The formula is:

![Delegation Image 3](/img/Delegation-Reward-Formula.png)

### Considering the Indexer's delegation pool

Delegators should consider the proportion of the Delegation Pool they own.

> All delegation rewards are shared evenly, with a pool rebalancing based on the amount the Delegator deposited into the pool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All delegation rewards are shared evenly, with a pool rebalancing based on the amount the Delegator deposited into the pool.
```

This gives the Delegator a share of the pool:

![Share formula](/img/Share-Forumla.png)

> The formula above shows that it is possible for an Indexer offering only 20% to Delegators to provide a better reward than an Indexer giving 90%. Simply do the math to determine the best reward.

### Considering the delegation capacity

> Finally, consider the delegation capacity.
> 
> Currently, the Delegation Ratio is set to 16.

Reviewer: These paragraphs are so short haha, maybe better to merge them?

```suggestion
Finally, consider the delegation capacity. Currently, the Delegation Ratio is set to 16.
```

> ### Why does this matter?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Why does this matter?
```

This means that if an Indexer has staked 1,000,000 GRT, their Delegation Capacity is 16,000,000 GRT of Delegated tokens that they can use in the protocol. Any delegated tokens over this amount will dilute all the Delegator rewards.

Imagine an Indexer with 100,000,000 GRT delegated to them, but their capacity is only 16,000,000 GRT. This means effectively, 84,000,000 GRT tokens are not being used to earn tokens. So, both the Delegators and the Indexers are earning less rewards than they could be.

Therefore, a Delegator should always consider the Delegation Capacity of an Indexer, and factor it into their decision making.

## Delegator FAQs and Bugs

### MetaMask "Pending Transaction" Bug

> 1. When I try to delegate my transaction in MetaMask, it appears as "Pending" or "Queued" for longer than expected. What should I do?\*\*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. When I try to delegate my transaction in MetaMask, it appears as "Pending" or "Queued" for longer than expected. What should I do?
```
(or was there a reason for these asterisks?)

### Choosing a trustworthy Indexer with a fair reward payout for Delegators

In order to understand how to choose a trustworthy Indexer, you need to understand the Delegation Parameters.

#### Delegation Parameters

- **Indexing Reward Cut** - The portion of the rewards the Indexer will keep for themselves.

>   - If an Indexer's rewards are set to 100%, as a Delegator, you will get 0 indexing rewards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If an Indexer's reward cut is set to 100%, as a Delegator, you will get 0 indexing rewards.
```

>   - If you see it set at 80% , as a Delegator, you will receive 20%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If it is set to 80% , as a Delegator, you will receive 20%.
```

>     > Note: At the beginning of the network, Indexing Rewards will account for the majority of the rewards.

Reviewer: "At the beginning of the network"? I think this whole note should be removed. 😛

<div sx={{ mx: 'auto', maxWidth: '700px' }}>
  ![Indexing Reward Cut](/img/Indexing-Reward-Cut.png) *The top Indexer is giving Delegators 90% of the rewards. The
  middle one is giving Delegators 20%. The bottom one is giving Delegators ~83%.*
</div>

- **Query Fee Cut** - This is the same as the Indexing Reward Cut, but it specifically applies to returns on the query fees the Indexer collects.

>   > Note: At the start of the network, returns from query fees will be very small compared to the indexing reward. It is recommended that you pay attention to the network to determine when the query fees will start to become more significant.

Reviewer: I would also remove this note, or at least rephrase it to not mention "at the start of the network", since the network has been up for 3 years.

## Calculating Delegators Expected Return

A Delegator must consider the following factors to determine a return:

- Consider an Indexer's ability to use the Delegated tokens available to them.
  - If an Indexer is not allocating all the tokens available, they are not earning the maximum profit they could be for themselves or their Delegators.
- Pay attention to the first few days of delegating.
  - An Indexer can choose to close an allocation and collect rewards anytime between 1 and 28 days. It is possible that an Indexer might have a lot of rewards they still need to collect, so their total rewards are low.

### Considering the query fee cut and indexing fee cut

You should choose an Indexer that is transparent and honest about setting their Query Fee Cut and Indexing Fee Cuts. You should also look at the Parameters Cooldown time to see how much of a time buffer you have. After that is done, it is simple to calculate the amount of rewards you are getting.

The formula is:

![Delegation Image 3](/img/Delegation-Reward-Formula.png)

### Considering the Indexer's delegation pool

Delegators should consider the proportion of the Delegation Pool they own.

> - All delegation rewards are shared evenly, with a pool rebalancing based on the amount the Delegator deposited into the pool

Reviewer: Note sure why you used a list with a single item here, instead of a paragraph?

This gives the Delegator a share of the pool:

![Share formula](/img/Share-Forumla.png)

> > The formula above shows that it is possible for an Indexer offering only 20% to Delegators can provide a better reward than an Indexer giving 90%. Simply do the math to determine the best reward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The formula above shows that it is possible for an Indexer offering only 20% to Delegators to provide a better reward than an Indexer giving 90%. Simply do the math to determine the best reward.
```

### Considering the delegation capacity

Finally, consider the delegation capacity.

> - Currently, the Delegation Ratio is set to 16.

Reviewer: Why is this a list?

Reviewer: Ah it's explained below, nevermind that second comment haha.

> **Why does this matter?**

Reviewer: Heading?
